There are two types of partitioning in Spark; Hash and Range.
Hash partitioning consists of the traditional way of hash partitioning,
like partition equals hash code modulus number of partitions.
Range partitioning is where tuples
containing the same key will appear in the same machine.
The order and the range of the keys determine where the data will be stored.
This means there could be skewed data and skewed data is unavoidable.
Also, this might not be a spark problem,
but rather a data problem.
So as a data engineer,
it's our job to make sure that the data can be processed with minimal skill.
For example, let's say you're a data engineer in retail organization,
and your data is partitioned by date,
like year, month, day.
Let's say during the holidays like Black Friday,
bunch of people buy a bunch of stuff,
then your data will be heavily skewed if you choose to use or date as partition key.
This means you'll have to come up with another way of partitioning your data.